# File and path options

<div>

The file and path options specify all the files that are included in the
package. The file and path options use the following syntax:

    files_and_dirs -C dir files_and_dirs -e file_or_dir dir -extdir dir

**files_and_dirs** The files and directories to package in the AIR file. Any
number of files and directories can be specified, delimited by whitespace. If
you list a directory, all files and subdirectories within, except hidden files,
are added to the package. (In addition, if the application descriptor file is
specified, either directly, or through wildcard or directory expansion, it is
ignored and not added to the package a second time.) Files and directories
specified must be in the current directory or one of its subdirectories. Use the
`-C` option to change the current directory.

<div>

Important: Wild cards cannot be used in the `file_or_dir` arguments following
the –`C` option. (Command shells expand the wildcards before passing the
arguments to ADT, which causes ADT to look for files in the wrong location.) You
can, however, still use the dot character, ".", to stand for the current
directory. For example: `-C assets .` _copies everything in the assets
directory, including any subdirectories, to the root level of the application
package._

</div>

**`-C dir files_and_dirs`** Changes the working directory to the value of _dir_
before processing subsequent files and directories added to the application
package (specified in **`files_and_dirs`**). The files or directories are added
to the root of the application package. The –`C` option can be used any number
of times to include files from multiple points in the file system. If a relative
path is specified for `dir`, the path is always resolved from the original
working directory.

As ADT processes the files and directories included in the package, the relative
paths between the current directory and the target files are stored. These paths
are expanded into the application directory structure when the package is
installed. Therefore, specifying `-C release/bin lib/feature.swf` places the
file `release/bin/lib/feature.swf` in the `lib` subdirectory of the root
application folder.

**`-e file_or_dir dir`**` `Places the file or directory into the specified
package directory. This option cannot be used when packaging an ANE file.

<div>

Note: The `<content>` element of the application descriptor file must specify
the final location of the main application file within the application package
directory tree.

</div>

**-extdir _dir_** The value of _`dir`_ is the name of a directory to search for
native extensions (ANE files). Specify either an absolute path, or a path
relative to the current directory. You can specify the `-extdir` option multiple
times.

The specified directory contains ANE files for native extensions that the
application uses. Each ANE file in this directory has the .ane filename
extension. However, the filename before the .ane filename extension does _not_
have to match the value of the `extensionID` element of the application
descriptor file.

For example, if you use `-extdir ./extensions`, the directory `extensions` can
look like the following:

<div>

    extensions/
        extension1.ane
        extension2.ane


</div>

<div>

Note: The use of the -extdir option is different for the ADT tool and the ADL
tool. In ADL, the option specifies a directory that contains subdirectories,
each containing an unpackaged ANE file. In ADT, the options specifies a
directory that contains ANE files.

</div>

</div>

<div>

<div>



</div>

</div>
