# ADT package command

The `-package` command should be run from the main application directory. The
command uses the following syntaxes:

Create an AIR package from the component application files:

    adt -package
        AIR_SIGNING_OPTIONS
        -target packageType
        -sampler
        ‑hideAneLibSymbols
        NATIVE_SIGNING_OPTIONS
        output
        app_descriptor
        FILE_OPTIONS

Create a native package from the component application files:

    adt -package
        AIR_SIGNING_OPTIONS
        -target packageType
        DEBUGGER_CONNECTION_OPTIONS
        -airDownloadURL URL
        NATIVE_SIGNING_OPTIONS
        output
        app_descriptor
        -platformsdk path
        FILE_OPTIONS

Create a native package that includes a native extension from the component
application files:

    adt -package
        AIR_SIGNING_OPTIONS
        -migrate MIGRATION_SIGNING_OPTIONS
        -target packageType
        DEBUGGER_CONNECTION_OPTIONS
        -airDownloadURL URL
        NATIVE_SIGNING_OPTIONS
        output
        app_descriptor
        -platformsdk path
        FILE_OPTIONS

Create a native package from an AIR or AIRI file:

    adt -package
        -target packageType
        NATIVE_SIGNING_OPTIONS
        output
        input_package

Create a native extension package from the component native extension files:

    adt -package
        AIR_SIGNING_OPTIONS
        -target ane
        output
        ANE_OPTIONS

Note: You do not have to sign an ANE file, so the `AIR_SIGNING_OPTIONS`
parameters are optional in this example.

**AIR_SIGNING_OPTIONS** The AIR signing options identify the certificate used to
sign an AIR installation file. The signing options are fully described in
[ADT code signing options](WS5b3ccc516d4fbf351e63e3d118666ade46-7f72.html).

**-migrate** This flag specifies that the application is signed with a migration
certificate in addition to the certificate specified in the
`AIR_SIGNING_OPTIONS` parameters. This flag is only valid if you are packaging a
desktop application as a native installer and the application uses a native
extension. In other cases an error occurs. The signing options for the migration
certificate are specified as the **MIGRATION_SIGNING_OPTIONS** parameters. Those
signing options are fully described in
[ADT code signing options](WS5b3ccc516d4fbf351e63e3d118666ade46-7f72.html).
Using the `-migrate` flag allows you to create an update for a desktop native
installer application that uses a native extension and change the code signing
certificate for the application, such as when the original certificate expires.
For more information, see
[Signing an updated version of an AIR application](WS13ACB483-1711-43c0-9049-0A7251630A7D.html).

The `-migrate` flag of the `-package` command is available in AIR 3.6 and later.

**-target** The type of package to create. The supported package types are:

- air — an AIR package. "air" is the default value and the -target flag does not
  need to be specified when creating AIR or AIRI files.

- airn — a native application package for devices in the extended television
  profile.

- ane —an AIR native extension package

- Android package targets:

  - apk — an Android package. A package produced with this target can only be
    installed on an Android device, not an emulator.

  - apk‑captive‑runtime — an Android package that includes both the application
    and a captive version of the AIR runtime. A package produced with this
    target can only be installed on an Android device, not an emulator.

  - apk-debug — an Android package with extra debugging information. (The SWF
    files in the application must also be compiled with debugging support.)

  - apk-emulator — an Android package for use on an emulator without debugging
    support. (Use the apk-debug target to permit debugging on both emulators and
    devices.)

  - apk-profile — an Android package that supports application performance and
    memory profiling.

- iOS package targets:

  - ipa-ad-hoc — an iOS package for ad hoc distribution.

  - ipa-app-store — an iOS package for Apple App store distribution.

  - ipa-debug — an iOS package with extra debugging information. (The SWF files
    in the application must also be compiled with debugging support.)

  - ipa-test — an iOS package compiled without optimization or debugging
    information.

  - ipa-debug-interpreter — functionally equivalent to a debug package, but
    compiles more quickly. However, the ActionScript bytecode is interpreted and
    not translated to machine code. As a result, code execution is slower in an
    interpreter package.

  - ipa-debug-interpreter-simulator — functionally equivalent to
    ipa-debug-interpreter, but packaged for the iOS simulator. Macintosh-only.
    If you use this option, you must also include the -platformsdk option,
    specifying the path to the iOS Simulator SDK.

  - ipa-test-interpreter — functionally equivalent to a test package, but
    compiles more quickly. However, the ActionScript bytecode is interpreted and
    not translated to machine code. As a result, code execution is slower in an
    interpreter package.

  - ipa-test-interpreter-simulator — functionally equivalent to
    ipa-test-interpreter, but packaged for the iOS simulator. Macintosh-only. If
    you use this option, you must also include the -platformsdk option,
    specifying the path to the iOS Simulator SDK.

- native — a native desktop installer. The type of file produced is the native
  installation format of the operating system on which the command is run:

  - EXE — Windows

  - DMG — Mac

  - DEB — Ubuntu Linux (AIR 2.6 or earlier)

  - RPM — Fedora or OpenSuse Linux (AIR 2.6 or earlier)

  For more information see
  [Packaging a desktop native installer](WS789ea67d3e73a8b22388411123785d839c-8000.html).

**-sampler** (iOS only, AIR 3.4 and higher) Enables the telemetry-based
ActionScript sampler in iOS applications. Using this flag lets you profile the
application with Adobe Scout. Although [Scout](http://www.adobe.com/go/scout)
can profile any Flash platform content, enabling detailed telemetry gives you
deep insight into ActionScript function timing, DisplayList, Stage3D rendering
and more. Note that using this flag will have a slight performance impact, so do
not use it for production applications.

**-hideAneLibSymbols** (iOS only, AIR 3.4 and higher) Application developers can
use multiple native extensions from multiple sources and if the ANEs share a
common symbol name, ADT generates a "duplicate symbol in object file" error. In
some cases, this error can even manifest itself as a crash at runtime. You can
use the `hideAneLibSymbols` option to specify whether or not to make the ANE
library's symbols visible only to that library's sources (yes) or visible
globally (no):

- **yes** — Hides ANE symbols, which resolves any unintended symbol conflict
  issues.

- **no** — (Default) Does not hide ANE symbols. This is the pre-AIR 3.4
  behavior.

**-embedBitcode** (iOS/tvOS only, AIR 25 and higher) Application developers can
use the `embedBitcode` option to specify whether or not to embed bitcode in
their iOS/tvOS application by specifying yes or no. The default value of this
switch if not specified is no. For tvOS default value is yes in `ipa-app-store`
target.

**DEBUGGER_CONNECTION_OPTIONS** The debugger connection options specify whether
a debug package should attempt to connect to a remote debugger running on
another computer or listen for a connection from a remote debugger. This set of
options is only supported for mobile debug packages (targets apk-debug and
ipa-debug). These options are described in
[Debugger connection options](WS901d38e593cd1bac1e63e3d128fc240122-7ff1.html).

**-airDownloadURL** Specifies an alternate URL for downloading and installing
the AIR runtime on Android devices. If not specified, an AIR application will
redirect the user to the AIR runtime on the Android Market if the runtime is not
already installed.

If your application is distributed through an alternate marketplace (other than
the Android Market administered by Google), then you might need to specify the
URL for downloading the AIR runtime from that market. Some alternate markets do
not allow applications to require a download from outside the market. This
option is only supported for Android packages.

**NATIVE_SIGNING_OPTIONS** The native signing options identify the certificate
used to sign a native package file. These signing options are used to apply a
signature used by the native operating system, not the AIR runtime. The options
are otherwise identical to the AIR_SIGNING_OPTIONS and are fully described in
[ADT code signing options](WS5b3ccc516d4fbf351e63e3d118666ade46-7f72.html).

Native signatures are supported on Windows and Android. On Windows, both an AIR
signing options and the native signing options should be specified. On Android,
only the native signing options can be specified.

In many cases, you can use the same code signing certificate to apply both an
AIR and a native signature. However, this is not true in all cases. For example,
Google's policy for apps submitted to the Android Market dictates that all apps
must be signed with a certificate valid until at least the year 2033. This means
that a certificate issued by a well known certificate authority, which are
recommended when applying an AIR signature, should not be used to sign an
Android app. (No certificate authorities issue a code signing certificate with
that long a validity period.)

**output** The name of the package file to create. Specifying the file extension
is optional. If not specified, an extension appropriate to the -target value and
current operating system is added.

**app_descriptor** The path to the application descriptor file. The path can be
specified relative to the current directory or as an absolute path. (The
application descriptor file is renamed as _application.xml_ in the AIR file.)

**-platformsdk** The path to the platform SDK for the target device:

- Android - The AIR 2.6+ SDK includes the tools from the Android SDK needed to
  implement the relevant ADT commands. Only set this value to use a different
  version of the Android SDK. Also, the platform SDK path does not need to be
  supplied on the command line if the AIR_ANDROID_SDK_HOME environment variable
  is already set. (If both are set, then the path provided on the command line
  is used.)

- iOS - The AIR SDK ships with a captive iOS SDK. The -platformsdk option lets
  you package applications with an external SDK so that you are not restricted
  to using the captive iOS SDK. For example, if you have built an extension with
  the latest iOS SDK, you can specify that SDK when packaging your application.
  Additionally, when using ADT with the iOS Simulator, you must always include
  the -platformsdk option, specifying the path to the iOS Simulator SDK.

**-arch**Application developers can use this argument to create APK for x86
platforms, it takes following values:

- armv7 - ADT packages APK for the Android armv7 platform.

- x86 - ADT packages APK for the Android x86 platform.

armv7 is the default value when no value is specified

**FILE_OPTIONS** Identifies the application files to include in the package. The
file options are fully described in
[File and path options](WS901d38e593cd1bac1e63e3d128fc240122-7ff2.html). Do not
specify file options when creating a native package from an AIR or AIRI file.

**input_airi** Specify when creating a native package from an AIRI file. The
AIR*SIGNING_OPTIONS are required if the target is \_air* (or no target is
specified).

**input_air** Specify when creating a native package from an AIR file. Do not
specify AIR_SIGNING_OPTIONS.

**ANE_OPTIONS** Identifies the options and files for creating a native extension
package. The extension package options are fully described in
[Native extension options](WS901d38e593cd1bac1e63e3d128fc240122-7ff0.html).

## ADT -package command examples

Package specific application files in the current directory for a SWF-based AIR
application:

    adt –package -storetype pkcs12 -keystore cert.p12 myApp.air myApp.xml myApp.swf components.swc

Package specific application files in the current directory for an HTML-based
AIR application:

    adt –package -storetype pkcs12 -keystore cert.p12 myApp.air myApp.xml myApp.html AIRAliases.js image.gif

Package all files and subdirectories in the current working directory:

    adt –package -storetype pkcs12 -keystore ../cert.p12 myApp.air myApp.xml .

Note: The keystore file contains the private key used to sign your application.
Never include the signing certificate inside the AIR package! If you use
wildcards in the ADT command, place the keystore file in a different location so
that it is not included in the package. In this example the keystore file,
cert.p12, resides in the parent directory.

Package only the main files and an images subdirectory:

    adt –package -storetype pkcs12 -keystore cert.p12 myApp.air myApp.xml myApp.swf images

Package an HTML-based application and all files in the HTML, scripts, and images
subdirectories:

    adt –package -storetype pkcs12 -keystore cert.p12 myApp.air myApp.xml index.html AIRALiases.js html scripts images

Package the application.xml file and main SWF located in a working directory
(release/bin):

    adt –package -storetype pkcs12 -keystore cert.p12 myApp.air release/bin/myApp.xml –C release/bin myApp.swf

Package assets from more than one place in your build file system. In this
example, the application assets are located in the following folders before
packaging:

    /devRoot
        /myApp
            /release
                /bin
                    myApp-app.xml
                    myApp.swf or myApp.html
        /artwork
            /myApp
                /images
                    image-1.png
                    ...
                    image-n.png
        /libraries
            /release
                /libs
                    lib-1.swf
                    lib-2.swf
                    lib-a.js
                    AIRAliases.js

Running the following ADT command from the /devRoot/myApp directory:

    adt –package -storetype pkcs12 -keystore cert.p12 myApp.air release/bin/myApp-app.xml
        –C release/bin myApp.swf (or myApp.html)
        –C ../artwork/myApp images
        –C ../libraries/release libs

Results in the following package structure:

    /myAppRoot
        /META-INF
            /AIR
                application.xml
                hash
        myApp.swf or myApp.html
        mimetype
        /images
            image-1.png
            ...
            image-n.png
        /libs
            lib-1.swf
            lib-2.swf
            lib-a.js
            AIRAliases.js

Run ADT as a Java program for a simple SWF-based application (without setting
the classpath):

    java –jar {AIRSDK}/lib/ADT.jar –package -storetype pkcs12 -keystore cert.p12 myApp.air myApp.xml myApp.swf

Run ADT as a Java program for a simple HTML-based application (without setting
the classpath):

    java –jar {AIRSDK}/lib/ADT.jar –package -storetype pkcs12 -keystore cert.p12 myApp.air myApp.xml myApp.html AIRAliases.js

Run ADT as a Java program (with the Java classpath set to include the ADT.jar
package):

    java -com.adobe.air.ADT –package -storetype pkcs12 -keystore cert.p12 myApp.air myApp.xml myApp.swf

Run ADT as a Java task in Apache Ant (although it's usually best to use the ADT
command directly in Ant scripts). The paths shown in the example are for
Windows:

    <property name="SDK_HOME" value="C:/AIRSDK"/>
    <property name="ADT.JAR" value="${SDK_HOME}/lib/adt.jar"/>

    target name="package">
        <java jar="${ADT.JAR}" fork="true" failonerror="true">
            <arg value="-package"/>
            <arg value="-storetype"/>
            <arg value="pkcs12"/>
            <arg value="-keystore"/>
            <arg value="../../ExampleCert.p12"/>
            <arg value="myApp.air"/>
            <arg value="myApp-app.xml"/>
            <arg value="myApp.swf"/>
            <arg value="icons/*.png"/>
        </java>
    </target>

Note: On some computer systems, double-byte characters in the file system paths
can be misinterpreted. If this occurs, try setting the JRE used to run ADT to
use the UTF-8 character set. This is done by default in the script used to
launch ADT on Mac and Linux. In the Windows adt.bat file, or when you run ADT
directly from Java, specify the `‑Dfile.encoding=UTF-8` option on the Java
command line.
